Timestamps for Video 106: RAGged Edge Box: A Personal AI-Powered Document Search System (#276)
data-umbrella/event-transcripts: 2024/106-pablo-rag.md

In this talk we will present The RAGged Edge Box project in which basic embedding systems and small local LLMs are packaged inside a multi-platform virtual machine (VirtualBox). The system provides a Web interface that runs locally and allows access to the RAG functionality in a completely private manner. The neural networks run on a ONNX runtime and do not require a GPU. RAG code is implemented in PHP and is easy to modify, requiring a much smaller execution environment than a Python alternative.

## Timestamps
00:00 Introduction by Reshama
04:40 Pablo begins presentation
05:00 RAGged project page
05:54 An overview of The RAGged Edge Box
08:40 Attendee Personas
10:59 Talk agenda
11:40 AI concepts in RAGged

> 11:52 What is Retrieval Augmented Generation(RAG)?
> 13:15 What are Large Language Models(LLMs)?
> 14:34 What are embeddings?
> 15:23 Embedding issues
> 17:28 Retrieval Augmented Generation(RAG) concepts
> 17:36 Answer extraction using LLMs
> 20:02 Information retrieval
> 21:35 Informational retrieval SOTA (State-of-the-Art)
> 22:36 Use of chunks in LLMs
> 23:36 Chunk issues: Chunk size and Multi-chunk processing
> 24:35 Using prompts with LLMs
> 26:10 RAGged Edge Box
> 28:28 Privacy in RAGged 
> 28:58 Technical sovereinity
> 29:47 Against planned obsolensce
> 32:40 RAGged Edge Box Architrcture (GitHub walkthrough)
> 41:55 What is enabling technologies become RAGged Edge Box
> 42:00 Open Neural Network Exchange
> 43:52 LLAMA.CPP
> 45:00 Why RAGged Edge Box uses PHP
> 47:16 PHP semantic search classes
> 48:37 Sentsnce Transformers(Embeddings)
> 48:59 Q: How are the model updated done?
> 49:05 A: there are no current model updates at the moment. The model should run offline so no automatic online downloads of updates is supported but it is in the roadmap.
> 50:11 Q: Which vector database is used?
> 50:18 A: SQLite is the vector database used and the embedding search is done using SQLite3 vector Search (FAISS)extension.
> 51:32 Reverse engineering Huggingface components
> 52:45 Extending RAGged Edge Box
> 53:53 Virtual machine packaging: genrating virtual box images programmatically
> 57:56 RAGged Edge Box as a platform'58:38 Current status of the system
> 1:00:31 Contributing to the project
> 1:01:00 Other announcements and conclusion
> 1:04:20 Thank you!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11:52 What is Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)?
13:15 What are Large Language Models (LLMs)?
14:34 What are embeddings?
15:23 Embedding issues
17:28 Retrieval Augmented Generation(RAG) concepts
17:36 Answer extraction using LLMs
20:02 Information retrieval
21:35 Informational retrieval SOTA (State-of-the-Art)
22:36 Use of chunks in LLMs
23:36 Chunk issues: Chunk size and Multi-chunk processing
24:35 Using prompts with LLMs
26:10 RAGged Edge Box
28:28 Privacy in RAGged 
28:58 Technical sovereignty
29:47 Against planned obsolescence
32:40 RAGged Edge Box Architecture (GitHub walkthrough)
41:55 What is enabling technologies become RAGged Edge Box
42:00 Open Neural Network Exchange
43:52 LLAMA.CPP
45:00 Why RAGged Edge Box uses PHP
47:16 PHP semantic search classes
48:37 Sentence Transformers (Embeddings)
48:59 Q: How are the model updates done?
49:05 A: there are no current model updates at the moment. The model should run offline so no automatic online downloads of updates is supported but it is in the roadmap.
50:11 Q: Which vector database is used?
50:18 A: SQLite is the vector database used and the embedding search is done using SQLite3 vector Search (FAISS) extension.
51:32 Reverse engineering Hugging Face components
52:45 Extending RAGged Edge Box
53:53 Virtual machine packaging: generating virtual box images programmatically
57:56 RAGged Edge Box as a platform
58:38 Current status of the system
1:00:31 Contributing to the project
1:01:00 Other announcements and conclusion
1:04:20 Thank you!
```

In this talk we will present The RAGged Edge Box project in which basic embedding systems and small local LLMs are packaged inside a multi-platform virtual machine (VirtualBox). The system provides a Web interface that runs locally and allows access to the RAG functionality in a completely private manner. The neural networks run on a ONNX runtime and do not require a GPU. RAG code is implemented in PHP and is easy to modify, requiring a much smaller execution environment than a Python alternative.

> 

Reviewer: ```

23:36 Chunk issues: Chunk size and Multi-chunk processing
24:35 Using prompts with LLMs
26:10 RAGged Edge Box
28:28 Privacy in RAGged 
28:58 Technical sovereignty
29:47 Against planned obsolescence
32:40 RAGged Edge Box Architecture (GitHub walkthrough)
41:55 What is enabling technologies become RAGged Edge Box
42:00 Open Neural Network Exchange
43:52 LLAMA.CPP
45:00 Why RAGged Edge Box uses PHP
47:16 PHP semantic search classes
48:37 Sentence Transformers (Embeddings)
48:59 Q: How are the model updates done?
49:05 A: there are no current model updates at the moment. The model should run offline so no automatic online downloads of updates is supported but it is in the roadmap.
50:11 Q: Which vector database is used?
50:18 A: SQLite is the vector database used and the embedding search is done using SQLite3 vector Search (FAISS) extension.
51:32 Reverse engineering Hugging Face components
52:45 Extending RAGged Edge Box
53:53 Virtual machine packaging: generating virtual box images programmatically
57:56 RAGged Edge Box as a platform
58:38 Current status of the system
1:00:31 Contributing to the project
1:01:00 Other announcements and conclusion
1:04:20 Thank you!

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```
